{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf600
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 # Policy \
U.S. - Canada agreement on phosphorus\
- $8 billion spent on sewage treatment plant upgrades\
\
---\
\
# Issue frame\
\
> Alewife - "invasive species" or "treasured forage fish" (Egan pg. 99) \
\
> "As late as the 1950s the flames on the oily surface of the water were still viewed as business as usual. But eventually the public had enough, and wen the river was set ablaze in 1969, it turned a nation livid and led to passage of the Clean Water Act." (Egan, pg. 147)\
\
\
---\
\
Baseline shift\
\
> "now it's just average" (Egan, pg. 227)\
\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 ## Evidence\
- rumors of "cultural releases" of Asian carp by people of Asian ancestry practicing some sort of ritual have swirled around Chicago for years. But when I pressed an Illinois Department of Natural resources spokesman for any evidence of this actually happening with bighead or silver carp in Chicago, the best he could muster was a link to a Wikipedia article.\
\
> "There is nothing which can be detected by the unassisted senses---no visible increase of filth, no new smell" -- Justice Oliver Wendell Holmes ruling in favor of Illinois (1906)\
\
## Policy Tools\
\
Funding\
- US Congress vs. Duluth \
\
New governmental bodies \
- Seaway commission\
- Great Lakes Fishery Commission\
- US - Canada agreement on phosphorus loading\
\
Regulation  \
- quarantining boats (Egan, pg. 204)\
\
Fines and prison \
- $5,000 and a year in prison (Egan pg. 202)\
\
Infrastructure \
- Hoover Dam and Lake Mead reservoir \
\
\
---\
\
\
\
## Unintended Consequences\
\
- Promoting international trade \
--\
\
- \
- Wolf pest control  \
--\
\
- ?? \
\
\
---\
\
"The western approach to fisheries management." \
\
---\
\
-->\
\
"Whisky is for drinking and water is for fighting over" <!-- deep policy difference involving what kind of right water is --> }